Get.
So it's about time for us to write our first function What's the syntax look like.
Well it starts with the key word def for Define DPF space and then the name of a function.
And this is typically snake case.
So all lowercase with what you call these things underscores between words and then parentheses.
And for now we're going to leave them just empty.
You can put things in here.
We'll talk about that in a future video and then a colon.
Just like with a conditional statement or a loop.
And then we indent whatever code we want to be part of the function.
So here is our very first function it's called Say hi.
We've defined it with a def keyword we have the parentheses the colon and all it does.
Every time we call say hi.
It just prints the string high.
Now it's important to realize is that just defining this does nothing on its own.
Well that's not true.
It defines it.
But it won't actually run the code it never executes.
So we will never see print.
Will never see never see high printed unless we actually invoke the function or executed by calling
its name and then adding parentheses afterward.
So let's define our own.
I'm going to make a new file called The first function that P Y and this function will start super simple.
Well just start by writing def and this is going to be a function that sings happy birthday.
So we'll just call let's do sing happy birthday.
If you don't know happy birthday by the way I know.
Different countries have different songs in the U.S..
Happy birthday to you Happy Birthday to you.
Happy birthday dear somebody's name.
Happy birthday to you.
So we'll just write that now.
So I just went ahead and typed it up and rather than singing it to a specific person for now I'm going
to say happy birthday dear you.
But we'll revisit this later.
So we get these four lines printed every time we call sing happy birthday.
So if I run this right now Python 3 first function nothing happens.
We don't get an error.
But nothing is printed.
And again that's because we're not actually invoking the function.
So I need to call sing Happy Birthday with parentheses.
And if I do that now I get those four lines printed out.
If I leave the parentheses off nothing happens.
We have to have those parentheses in order to say hey you know that thing sing happy birthday.
I want you to now call it versus this right here is saying Hey I thought you know that thing sing happy
birthday.
And that's it.
In this case we want to actually execute.
OK.
And so we can do it three four five times as many as we want and now we executed.
Look how many times we get it and all we had to do was write sing Happy Birthday to get four lines of
code for free.
And that's a really silly example because oftentimes functions might give us other functions inside
of them and those functions might call other functions.
And at the end of the day a single function call might actually result in 100 or 200 lines of code running
at some point.
For example this rock paper scissors refactor this start game function right here ends up actually invoking
display header and pick computer move and calculate winner and each of those have their own.
I don't know 10 20 30 lines of code.
So there's a lot of stuff happening just by the single line that we're writing.
So I'll leave this video here.
This is the basic syntax to defining a function.
Def name of the function parens call and indent all the code that goes in the function.
And then we have to execute it separately with parentheses in the name of the function.
And we're good to go.
So this is our first simple function.